Step 1: Log in to AWS Management Console

Open a web browser and go to the AWS Management Console.

Sign in with your AWS account credentials.

Step 2: Navigate to EC2 Dashboard

In the AWS Management Console, type "EC2" in the search bar at the top.

Click on "EC2" from the drop-down list to open the EC2 Dashboard.

Step 3: Launch Instance

On the EC2 Dashboard, click on the orange "Launch Instance" button.

Step 4: Name Your Instance

On the "Launch an instance" page, give your instance a name. For example, test-instance.

Step 5: Choose an Amazon Machine Image (AMI)

Select the Amazon Linux 2 AMI (HVM), SSD Volume Type which is free-tier eligible.

Step 6: Choose an Instance Type

Select the t2.micro instance type (free-tier eligible).

Step 7: Configure Key Pair

Under "Key pair (login)," select "Create new key pair."

Name your key pair (e.g., test-instance-keypair).

Ensure the "Key pair type" is set to RSA and "Private key file format" is set to .pem.

Click the "Create key pair" button. This will download a .pem file to your computer. Keep this file secure.

Step 8: Configure Network Settings

Leave the "Network settings" at their default values.

Under "Firewall (security groups)," select "Create security group."

Ensure the rule to allow SSH traffic from Anywhere (0.0.0.0/0) is present.

Step 9: Configure Storage

Under "Configure storage," ensure the root volume is set to 8 GiB and the volume type is gp2 (General Purpose SSD).

Step 10: Configure Advanced Details

Leave all settings in the "Advanced details" section as default.

Step 11: Review and Launch

Review all the settings on the "Review and launch" page to ensure everything is configured correctly.

Click the "Launch instance" button.

Step 12: View Instances

Click the "View all instances" button to go to the EC2 Dashboard and see your running instances.

Your instance will be in the "pending" state initially. Wait until the state changes to "running."

Connecting to Your Instance

Step 13: Access Your Instance

Once the instance state is "running," select your instance from the list.

Note the Public IPv4 DNS address of your instance.

Step 14: Connect to Your Instance via SSH

Open your terminal in the wedevxPlatform.

Ensure that you are in the home directory '~'.

Create file (use vim or nano) called exactly the same as your key-pair.( test-instance-keypair.pem).

Navigate to the directory where your key pair file is located. cd ~

Use the following command to connect to your instance: ssh -i /path/to/TestInstanceKeyPair.pem ec2-user@your-instance-public-dns. Replace /path/to/TestInstanceKeyPair.pem with the path to your downloaded key pair file, and your-instance-public-dns with the Public IPv4 DNS address of your instance. Or you can to to Connect Tab in your AWS Console and copy the command in the Example: 

Paste this command to your terminal in the wedevx platfrom.

When prompted, type yes to confirm the connection.

Example Connection Command: ssh -i ~/Downloads/TestInstanceKeyPair.pem ec2-user@ec2-203-0-113-25.compute-1.amazonaws.com

If you see similar screen, it means you have successfully connected to your AWS Instance! If you have issues, make sure your key pair name matches the filename

Now To avoid being charged, make sure to terminate your instance when you are done using it.

Select your instance from the list.

Select "Instance State" > "Terminate".

Confirm the termination when prompted.

In terminal:

Delete your key-pair file using 'rm' command.

Run the 'pwd' command and ensure that you are in the 'home/user' directory.